---
slug: os-linux-network-protocols-http-i-http-caching-4-squid
title: "Squid"
authors: [kbbgl]
tags: [os, linux, network, protocols, http]
---

# Squid

The main squid configuration file, squid.conf, can be found in the following locations:

```bash
/etc/squid/squid.conf

/etc/squid3/squid.conf
```

Commonly configured options include:

`http_port`: Port to listen on for incoming proxy requests.

`http_access`: Allow or deny access to certain HTTP requests.

`hierarchy_stoplist`: Set of strings which disable the cache hierarchy settings.
Squid can also parse and check its syntax with a built-in syntax checker:

```bash
# squid -k parse
```

The `-k` switch takes the following options as well:

`reconfigure`: Reload the configuration file.
`shutdown`: Safe shutdown.
`kill`: Hard unclean shutdown.

Please consult man squid for more options and details.

## Security Configuration

Access list begins with an aclname and acltype followed by:

- type-specific argument(s), or
- a quoted filename with one item per line.

Access Control Lists (ACL) format:

```bash
acl aclname acltype argument ...
acl aclname acltype "file" ...
```

To see the possible ACL types, review the "Access Controls in Squid" documentation.

To enable a parent cache server, use the following configuration option:

```bash
cache_peer parent.example.com parent 3128 3130
```

To enable a sibling peer cache server, use the following configuration option:

```bash
cache_peer childcache.example.com sibling 3128 3130
```

Access to the the peer cache can be controlled with the following option:

```bash
cache_peer_access <PEER_NAME> <allow|deny> <ACLNAME>
```

For additional details, take a look at "Squid Configuration Directives".

## Access Control

Access control is one of the main reason to use a proxy. The ACL system of Squid has options to control almost every aspect of an HTTP request. Access control can be restricted by time of day, by domain/URI, by user (logging into proxy), and by content. Configuration files are processed sequentially.

To enable the ACL named hourlyworkers to only use the proxy during business hours, do:

```bash
acl workinghours time MTWHF 08:00-18:00
http_access allow hourlyworkers workinghours
http_access deny hourlyworkers
```

To restrict by a part of the URI, do:

```bash
acl banned_reddit url_regex ˆhttp://.*reddit.com/.*$
http_access deny banned_reddit
```

To allow only authenticated users to use the following configuration, do:

```bash
acl valid_users proxy_auth REQUIRED
http_access allow valid_users
http_access deny all
```

When building ACLs or configuration files for Squid, remember that the first match wins. Therefore, start your ACLs with the most specific options in the beginning.
