---
slug: os-linux-network-dns-7-bind
title: "Bind"
authors: [kbbgl]
tags: [os, linux, network, dns, 7_bind]
---

## BIND

`BIND` is a widely-used, ISC standard DNS Internet software. It is available for most UNIX-type systems. 

- It can be run inside of a `chroot`
- `DNSSEC `(Domain Name System Security Extensions) - security extensions
- It allows for different views - different DNS answers, depending on the source IP address
- It has IPv6 support
- It includes the `rndc` (Remote Name Daemon Control) utility.


### Configuration

Settings for the `BIND` configuration file are stored in `/etc/named.conf` in CentOS/OpenSUSE or `/etc/bind/named.conf` in Ubuntu.

Some popular configuration options include:

- `listen-on`- Port and IP to listen for connections.
- `listen-on-v6` 
- `allow-query` - Controls hosts which can make queries of the server.
- `recursion` - Controls the server acting as a recursive resolver.
- `forwarders` - When acting as a recursive resolver, controls which nameservers we should query first.
- `forward-first` - Controls where the first recursive query happens (forwarders or 'root' domain).

To check the configuration file for proper syntax, use the `named-checkconf` command. When named is running in a `chroot`, use the syntax `named-checkconf -t <CHROOTDIR>`.

The `named-checkconf` command can also test load any defined master zone files by using the `-z` switch.


### `BIND` as a Caching Nameserver

Notice the location and names are different, but the configuration has the same elements; they just may be moved into different files. The key configuration file is `named.conf`.

To set up a caching nameserver:

1. Install the package:

```bash
apt-get install bind9
```
2. Change the configuration to listen on a public interface (`listen-on`, `listen-on-v6`, `allow-query`):

```bash
/etc/bind/named.conf
```

3. Start the BIND daemon:

```bash
systemctl start bind9
```


### `BIND` Zone Configuration

When it comes to the `BIND `zone configuration, each authoritative zone needs a definition in `named.conf`. Slave zones also are defined in `named.conf`.

A zone definition for a master zone in `named.conf` looks like this:

```
zone "example.com." IN {
   type master;
   file "example.com.zone";
}; 
```

A zone definition for a slave zone in `named.conf` looks like this:

```
zone "foo.example." IN {
   type slave;
   masters { 192.168.122.11; 192.168.131.45; };
};
```