## Network Security Policies

By default, all `Pod`s can reach each other; all ingress and egress traffic is allowed. This has been a high-level networking requirement in Kubernetes. However, network isolation can be configured and traffic to `Pod`s can be blocked. In newer versions of Kubernetes, egress traffic can also be blocked. This is done by configuring a `NetworkPolicy`. As all traffic is allowed, you may want to implement a policy that drops all traffic, then, other policies which allow desired ingress and egress traffic.

The spec of the policy can narrow down the effect to a particular namespace, which can be handy. Further settings include a `podSelector`, or `label`, to narrow down which `Pod`s are affected. Further ingress and egress settings declare traffic to and from IP addresses and ports.

Not all network providers support the `NetworkPolicies` kind. A non-exhaustive list of providers with support includes Calico, Romana, Cilium, Kube-router, and WeaveNet.

In previous versions of Kubernetes, there was a requirement to annotate a namespace as part of network isolation, specifically the `net.beta.kubernetes.io/network-policy=` value. Some network plugins may still require this setting.

### Network Security Example

The use of policies has become stable, noted with the `v1 apiVersion`. The example below narrows down the policy to affect the default namespace.

Only `Pod`s with the `label` of `role: db` will be affected by this policy, and the policy has both `Ingress` and `Egress` settings.

The ingress setting includes a `172.17` network, with a smaller range of `172.17.1.0` IPs being excluded from this traffic.

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: ingress-egress-policy
  namespace: default
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      role: db
  policyTypes:
  - Ingress
  - Egress
  ingress:
  - from:
    - ipBlock:
        cidr: 172.17.0.0/16
        except:
        - 172.17.1.0/24
  - namespaceSelector:
      matchLabels:
        project: myproject
  - podSelector:
      matchLabels:
        role: frontend
  ports:
  - protocol: TCP
    port: 6379
egress:
- to:
  - ipBlock:
      cidr: 10.0.0.0/24
  ports:
  - protocol: TCP
    port: 5978
```

These rules change the namespace for the following settings to be labeled `project: myproject`. The affected `Pod`s also would need to match the label `role: frontend`. Finally, TCP traffic on port `6379` would be allowed from these `Pod`s.

The egress rules have the `to` settings, in this case the `10.0.0.0/24` range TCP traffic to port `5978`.

The use of empty ingress or egress rules denies all type of traffic for the included Pods, though this is not suggested. Use another dedicated `NetworkPolicy` instead.

Note that there can also be complex `matchExpressions` statements in the spec, but this may change as `NetworkPolicy` matures.

```yaml
podSelector:
  matchExpressions:
    - {key: inns, operator: In, values: ["yes"]}
```

More [network policy recipes can be found on GitHub](https://github.com/ahmetb/kubernetes-network-policy-recipes).

### Default Policy Example

The empty braces will match all `Pod`s not selected by other `NetworkPolicy` and will not allow ingress traffic. Egress traffic would be unaffected by this policy.

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: default-deny
spec:
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Ingress
```

With the potential for complex ingress and egress rules, it may be helpful to create multiple objects which include simple isolation rules and use easy to understand names and labels.

Some network plugins, such as WeaveNet, may require annotation of the `Namespace`. The following shows the setting of a `DefaultDeny` for the `myns` namespace:

```yaml
kind: Namespace
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: myns
  annotations:
    net.beta.kubernetes.io/network-policy: |
     {
        "ingress": {
          "isolation": "DefaultDeny"
        }
     }
```
