## Taints

A node with a particular taint will **repel `Pod`s without `tolerations` for that `taint`**. A `taint` is expressed as `key=value:effect`. The key and the value are created by the administrator.

The key and value used can be any legal string, and this allows flexibility to prevent `Pod`s from running on nodes based off of any need. If a `Pod` does not have an existing toleration, the scheduler will not consider the tainted node.

### Ways to Handle `Pod` Scheduling

- `NoSchedule`: The scheduler will not schedule a `Pod` on this node, unless the `Pod` has this toleration. Existing `Pod`s continue to run, regardless of toleration.
- `PreferNoSchedule`: The scheduler will avoid using this node, unless there are no untainted nodes for the `Pod`s toleration. Existing `Pod`s are unaffected.
- `NoExecute`: This `taint` will cause existing `Pod`s to be evacuated and no future `Pod`s scheduled. Should an existing Pod `have` a toleration, it will continue to run. If the `Pod` `tolerationSeconds` is set, they will remain for that many seconds, then be evicted. Certain node issues will cause the `kubelet` to add 300 second tolerations to avoid unnecessary evictions.


If a node has multiple taints, the scheduler ignores those with matching tolerations. The remaining unignored taints have their typical effect. 

The use of `TaintBasedEvictions` is still an alpha feature. The kubelet uses taints to rate-limit evictions when the node has problems.

To taint a node:
```bash
kubectl taint nodes worker bubba=value:PreferNoSchedule
kubectl taint nodes worker bubba=value:NoSchedule
kubectl taint nodes worker bubba=value:NoExecute
```

To remove a taint:
```bash
kubectl taint nodes worker bubba-
```